well Israeli police have broken up a
protest by demonstrators who are trying
to block humanitarian aid from entering
Gaza at least 18 protesters were
detained at the karabu salum Crossing on
Israel's border with Gaza they've been
demanding the release of captives now
previous protests in the same place have
resulted in trucks filled with Aid
suppliers being forced to turn back well
let's speak to Hamra Sal Hood she's
across this for us from occupied East
Jerusalem H as we were saying earlier
there have been a string of protests
that we seen at that Crossing but this
time people actually detained just how
is this all actually affecting the
supplies making it into the
strip well look these protests have been
going on for several weeks now and at
their maximum capacity you're looking at
around a 100 demonstrators here mainly
right-wing protesters some of them from
settlements and also even family members
of some of those being held captive
inside of Gaza now they're saying that
the Israeli government should not be
allowing Aid to go through the Kim Abu
salm Crossing in the southern part of
the country they're saying that it's
quote immoral while there are still
captives being held in Gaza now Israeli
police have declared some of that area
military zone due to these
demonstrations because protesters were
even bringing tents in hopes of camping
out all night Israeli police say they
have removed around 40 protesters from
the area raining 18 of them and the goal
again is for them to block that aid from
going into Gaza essentially wanting to
starve the population the aid going
through we already know is quite minimal
and on some occasions those protesters
have even succeeded in blocking those
Aid trucks from getting through into the
Gaza Strip and stay with me H because I
want to ask you about a report that's
out in the Israeli newspaper haret and
now they're reporting that the
government of Benjamin Netanyahu is
pushing ahead with a large illegal
settlement in the occupied West Bank now
hars are saying that 650 homes will be
built just a few meters away from
Palestinian houses south of occupied
East Jerusalem and farri right Israeli
activists are reportedly involved in
that development we know that Israel has
continued to build on Palestinian land
even though those settlements are
illegal under international law H just
how are people in Israel reacting to
this report in horret
well our teams have been speaking to one
NGO called IR amim who have been
documenting illegal settlement expansion
and human rights abuses specifically in
occupied East Jerusalem and here alone
you're looking at around 17 different
settlement plans that have been really
constructed since October the 7th four
of which have been approved so the total
for the 17 is around 8,000 housing units
and in occupied East Jerusalem it would
be 3,700 that are still that were
already approved and this is a process
that usually takes a very long time
there is a lot of bureaucracy involved
with municipalities of different towns
Etc but in occupied East Jerusalem in a
town called umbas you're looking at
around 650 housing units that are going
to be built there now what this NGO is
saying that essentially since October
the 7th it's been unprecedented how many
settlement approvals there have been and
that's because they believe the
government is using the guise of this
war to try and FastTrack a lot of these
illegal settlement plans while everyone
is essentially focused on the war so
while all of this is ongoing these
settlements are not just in occupied
East Jerusalem but also across the
occupied West Bank and it is worth
noting this is the most rightwing
government in Israel's history who has
been quite the proponents for illegal
settlement expansion and they're even
saying they want them in Gaza this is
something we've been hearing repeatedly
from these members of the far right but
as far as occupied East Jerusalem it's
an incredibly sensitive issue as the
Israeli government is now expanding
these illegal settlements H there with
all the latest for us from occupied East
Jerusalem thanks HDA